we're going to begin in Gaza with the
Palestinian civil defense team says
evidence from Mass graves in the grounds
of NASA Hospital in conun shows the
Israeli Army carried out summary
executions 392 bodies have been
recovered in Mass Graves across Gaza but
they've not been able to identify
267 of them and at least 20 people may
have been buried alive at the medical
complex children were also among the
bodies recovered the team is accusing
Israel of committing crime Against
Humanity meanwhile International
pressure is mounting on Israel after the
discovery of the mass Graves US National
Security advisor Jake Sullivan says
Washington wants answers the White House
says reports of mass graves in Gaza are
deeply
disturbing the EU and the United Nations
have already called for an independent
investigation Mass Graves have been
discovered in alifa hospital in Gaza
City as well as NASA Hospital in the
South Dr Muhammad Al m is head of the
monitoring and documenting unit at the
civil defense department in Gaza he's
joining us live from Rafa we're going to
be talking to him through a translator
sir thank you very much indeed for being
with us can you tell us how you and your
team gathered the
[Music]
evidence peace be upon you good evening
everyone during our work with the civil
defense team in order to recover the
bodies in the medical complex of Al
Naser we have found a mass Graves within
the medical
complex and one in the mor one in the
north of the medical complex and the
Civil team civil defense team has worked
in order to recover all the bodies most
of them were decomposed bodies and the
occupation forces has changed the forms
and also changed the shrouds and put
them in plastic bags we believe that
those bags have accelerated the
decomposition of those bodies we have
also notice through our teams we are
trying also to document all the evidence
that show that many corpses or bodies uh
have shown signs of torture including
hand cuffing and also some other parts
uh some other bodies has shown that they
were shot and gunshot also we have
observed that there were corpses of
bodies that were completely dismembered
in we also found bodies of women young
people elderly in the area of uh around
the medical complex we also have
observed and found some bodies with no
clothes and all this indicated that uh
some other bodies showed that they were
being treated in the medical
complex as we have shown in the picture
during the press conference that showed
that one of the bodies that found was
receiving
treatment we are uh trying to uh find
all the evidence establish all the
evidence uh how those bodies have been
buried we have also noted and observed
that many bodies have been have been put
in one bag which is uh in violation of
the regulations we have here there is
also clear indication that some citizens
and some bodies have been buried in
certain directions we have also found
some bodies in masked and compiled put
30 m underground while in Mass Graves
the distance should not be more than 1
meter sir can you tell me what efforts
you and your team have made to record
and reserve the evidence that you say
that you
found we have worked in a very difficult
conditions and very
challenging this is due to the fact that
we are lacking all the needed equipment
to deal uh with those uh bodies and to
maintain them we have uh used the
equipment that we have in order to
recover the bodies and we have tried as
much as possible not not to open the
bags in order to keep those bodies until
they are moved to a clean area where we
can clean them and then we can open
those bags and uh document all the
evidence that shows that there were
signs of torture and are in violation
with the uh international law after uh
taking note of all those signs and
evidence we have also been able to
identify all the problems shown by those
bodies and we have document them in
specialized reports some of the reports
are likely to help the international
committees that can be launched in the
near future in order to investigate in
those human uh in those crimes committed
by the occupation with the evidence that
you have managed to pull together what
do you do with it now how do you get it
to an independent team to be able to
analyze it
we are ready and fully prepared in order
to uh submit a full report documented
with all the photos and evidence that
that we have found about those bodies we
can publish them and submit them in both
Arabic and in English so that it can be
a foundation for the work that can be
conducted by International investigation
committees we are here ready in Gaza in
order to help their work in order
to refrain or to push the occupation to
refrain from the crimes being committed
against the people in
Gaza uh in during our work we have found
children during the those Mass Graves
what why do we have to find children
bodies in Mass Graves this confirms that
the number that we are documenting of
children that have died which is more
than 14,000 children including elderly
and women are you concerned sir that if
an independent team is unable to get
into Gaza to be able to examine the
evidence for themselves that the
evidence might become corrupted it might
become damaged and therefore may become
unusable if a case is to be
brought I don't think
because we have made sure to document
all the evidences that we have found so
far those bodies have been identified
whether those uh bodies uh were unknown
or not known known or not
known and we are keeping all the uh
evidence that we found in order to
present it to the international
investigation committee we will exert
all effort our efforts in order to
maintain and preserve all the evidence
we will document it properly so that we
can convey the message of the
Palestinian people to the world I want
to ask you about the impact that this
has been having on you and members of
your team having to go through these
Mass Graves and collect the evidence
that you have say you have been able to
pull together what kind of effect is
that having on the morale and on the
personalities of
people there is an impact uh a mental uh
impact and also Health that is impacting
our health and our morale given that we
are exposed
directly to those tortures some of our
uh
Team some members of our team have
received the distress calls directly but
we were not able to reach the medical
complex on time because of the situation
back then we were not able to save
lives also some of our teams or our
members are still suffering from traumas
that is also impacting the quality of
the work that we can carry out as far as
their health of our teams are is
concerned some of our members were
contaminated given that they were
dealing directly with those bodies
without having the proper precautions
due to the lack of
equipment we have also lost all the
specialized Labs as far as forensic
medicine is concerned in Gaza because of
the uh occupation uh bombings and
attacks which has also hindered our work
and we were not we were not able to
establish all the needed uh evidence as
we hoped so we still believe that the
occupation has stolen some organs we
have found some bodies with an open
stomach and they were just stapled which
is also not known as a practice in
forens medicine or any kind of medicine
in the health system in Gaza we use
usually the proper medical equipment and
not staple the bodies uh final question
sir what would you hope that
International organizations who look at
your evidence would do with it
now we hope to uh establish the clear
evidence that the occupation has
committed crimes and killed
on purpose thousands of Palestinians in
Gaza they have used all kind of tortures
and violated all the privacy of our
people and their dignity the occupation
has committed
crimes and has killed all forms of life
in Gaza they took pleasure in doing so
and destroying life in Gaza we hope that
there will be a clear report that will
emanate from the investigation to prove
and establish an Evidence of all the
occupation crimes being committed in
Gaza Dr Muhammad Al we appreciate you
being with us in Al Jaa thank you very
much
indeed I'm going to bring in Jeffrey
Robertson he's an international lawyer
and former United Nations war crimes
judge he was also president of the war
crimes Court in Sierra Leon he's joining
us live now from London good to have you
with us an Al J sir this is one of the
fundamental problems that Dr was
pointing out isn't it the difficult of
collecting evidence tangible evidence
inside a war
zone well it's in a long history we now
have a many forensic doctors who have
had the rather Grizzly task of combing
through Mass Graves and examining
victims to establish how they died and
that is what is NOW essential to get to
the bottom of this true atrocity it's a
crime against humanity and uh there must
be an independent inquiry although
Israel does not accept Independence when
seven Aid workers were killed by drones
the other day they simply sat the two
officials responsible and said it was a
tragedy it wasn't a tragedy it was a
crime crime of manslaughter by
negligence but of course the Israeli
government would not allow any
prosecution or any independent inquiry
this case cries out for an independent
inquiry and the sooner the better the
Gaza health
authority is part party
Jeff Jeffrey Robertson unfortunately
your line there is is breaking up and I
apologize for interrupting you but I
hope you can uh still hear me I do want
to ask about one of the points that uh
Dr Al was making in terms of how they
prevent how they present the evidence uh
to the rest of the world to be
investigated um that he was suggesting
that they would make the evidence
available in Arabic and in English one
would imagine that that the bulk of that
may well be online um until such times
as a team can get to see it uh in person
in terms of bringing a prosecution or
making the in terms of the validity of
that evidence would it be enough just to
be able to present that evidence online
or is it absolutely essential that
investigators get to see that evidence
in person it would not be enough because
people would say that the Hamas health
authority was party free uh so you have
to have for the sake of the Israelis as
well as the Palestinians an independent
inquiry and the real question of getting
a team of experienced forensic uh
doctors and uh a prosecutor or judge uh
with an international
reputation uh
in to Gaza I mean the Kim KH the head of
the international criminal court
prosecution was not allowed into Gaza so
I think this is the point at which
America has to step up it's got a number
of eminent prosecutors and experts I'm
sure it can put a team together and it
will have to insist because this has
caused outrage in the International
Community it will have to insist on a
truly independent investigation
independent of both the Hamas
authorities and the Israeli government
it will have to have the ability to
question those Israeli officers in the
vicinity to establish how this horror
came about and who is responsible that
is only the questions being asked by the
European Union by governments around the
world can only be answered by uh an
inquiry which is independent to both
sides but because this is a crime
against humanity it
requires a full and independent and
trans parent
investigation Jeffrey Robertson uh
International lawyer former United
Nations war crimes judge sir we
appreciate it thank you very much indeed